hi everybody and welcome to why we chose
a class a gas Motorhome instead of a
diesel so this is one of our most
popular questions we get asked this and
we always get asked when are you going
to upgrade to a diesel we have now
driven 70,000 miles with our class a gas
Motorhome and just felt like this is the
best time to do this video so reason
number one we knew that we would be
traveling all across the country mainly
in unfamiliar areas and if we need its
service done to our RV we knew that we
would be able to find a Ford dealership
to do work to the motorhome our class a
gas motorhome is on a ford f53 chassis
it's the v10 6.8 liter engine with a
five-speed transmission also made by
Ford so we knew no matter where we were
we would always be able to find a Ford
dealership unless if we were in a very
small town and maybe possibly they did
not have a Ford dealership but the other
advantage of the class a gas motorhome
is that any certified mechanic will be
able to work on a Ford everybody knows
how to work on a Ford engine that was a
big reason for us with a diesel pusher
if we needed some type of work done we
would have to find a certified diesel
mechanic and there's just not as many of
them as there are gas mechanics or
gasoline engine mechanics I should say
so if that was a big reason for us
reason number two the ford f53 chassis
is very easy to maintain and it's very
inexpensive to maintain oil changes vary
between 75 to 95 dollars
we've even spent as little as 55 dollars
but that was just one time
so compared that to what these will
pusher we have friends with diesel
pushers and their oil changes they tell
us are between four hundred to six
hundred dollars that's a big difference
yes a diesel pusher does go further in
between oil changes so they don't need
them as often but that difference
doesn't equal two dollars winning taken
in consideration number three easy to
find a gas station that sells 87 octane
fuel that is the fuel that goes into
this are
viii and every gas station has 87 octane
it's very easy or 88 octane I should say
there have been times that we couldn't
get the 87 and had to go to 88 but they
also gasoline fuel whereas with a diesel
pusher not that's not always the case
you might go into a gas station and they
don't have a diesel pump for us that it
just took a little bit of the planning
out of it we could go to I'll throw out
the word wah-wah out there if you live
in a certain area you'll know what that
is or a 7-eleven or anywhere and be able
to fill up our RV so that was a another
little reason a nice little perk is just
it took out a little bit extra planning
while doing our trips we can just stop
anywhere but anytime we need fuel we
just pull over and get gas no big deal
number four is going to be a big one for
most people upfront cost so a class a
gas Motorhome are typically much cheaper
than the Class A diesels and this is
usually what happens is people get the
the sticker shock and they're like nope
I'm not going with a diesel I don't want
to pay that extra money for for that
engine I'm going to go with gas for now
and maybe I'll work my way up to a
diesel later on now I will say you're
getting much more than just an engine
when you choose a diesel there are many
many advantages to a diesel pusher and
honestly it's the superior chassis is
the diesel pusher and towards the end of
the video I'm going to go into all the
benefits of a diesel pusher reason
number five
life expectancy we knew that this class
a gas Ford chassis was going to last as
long as we needed it to the average our
beer does about 5,000 miles per year if
you throw in the full timers it goes up
I think something like 6,000 7,000 miles
a year for the average that's not a
whole lot of miles
the Ford chassis with this v10 is a very
reliable chassis if you go into forums
you can see that they're lasting well
over 200,000 miles at 5,000 miles per
year the average that is 40 years
we knew that we wouldn't need the RV or
went the RV after 40 years we do do a
lot of miles so we do well over the
average we do full-time we do drive over
20,000 miles a year but even at 20,000
miles a year we will still get 10 years
out of the chassis maybe even a little
bit more because we're planning on
slowing down as we go this year we're
hoping to do under 20,000 miles if we
can continue to do that we could get 12
to 15 years out of this chassis which is
way more than we actually want to get
out of it we'll be ready for a new RV
before the chassis is completely burned
out I guess you could say or dead number
six is a bit of a question and I'm gonna
answer it
sue and it will become a reason I guess
you could say so we get asked all the
time what about hill climbing going into
mountains we have done all that we have
traveled on 8% grades 9% grades on the
highway we've done greater grades than
that on back roads and we make it up the
hills just fine and that's with towing
our car it's does get louder up front
but it never gets so loud that we're
shouting to talk to each other
the engine does work harder to get up
the hill but it still has no I shouldn't
say it doesn't have any problem we get
up the hill just fine a lot of times we
even have to get into the passing lane
to go around the trucks because they're
moving so slow and we'll just you know
pass them and get back into the right
lane again we don't hang out in the left
lane that would be we're not going that
fast but we're definitely going faster
than them a diesel pusher will get you
up that hill quieter smoother and
quicker but for us hill climbing for us
is only about five percent of our
driving most of the driving that we do
back and forth all across the country
and all the different states it's
relatively flat you might hit two
percent three percent and that's nothing
that's easy for the RV to do it's so
rare that we hit these 7% grades 8%
grades and 9% grades to us to have the
extra horsepower and torque hit it
didn't really matter to us we're just
towing a small car reason number seven
is size we wanted a Class A RV that was
under 30 foot so that actually kind of
wiped out all of the class a diesel
motor homes there used to be a class
diesel Colombia they don't make it
anymore it was a very very small class a
that was a diesel but other than that I
cannot think of any other class a diesel
are bees that are under 30 feet so that
was a big decision maker for us right
there because we couldn't even we
couldn't even find one all of your
diesel pushers are going to be over 30
feet I think that the smallest one that
I can think of right now is a Tiffin
makes one that's 31 to 32 feet and it's
a diesel pusher but other than that
that's the only one I could think of and
it's still like I said it's it's over
230 feet so there are all of our reasons
the class a gas RV just met all of our
expectations or even exceeded some of
them so we're very happy with the class
a gas Motorhome we get that question
asked a lot would we buy another one
absolutely we really do enjoy it we have
73,000 miles on our RV now and it has
been fantastic it's been in the shop one
time for an oxygen sensor and when we
first bought it within the first month
that was 67,000 miles ago or something
like that so I don't want we haven't had
it in the shop since it's been a very
reliable engine it's been very easy for
us to maintain and it has gotten us
everywhere we need to go so there are
all the reasons that we purchased it but
now I want to talk about some of the
benefits of a diesel pusher advantage
number one is towing capacity so with a
diesel pusher you get more horsepower
you get more torque you get a better
transmission and a stronger chassis
which equals more towing capacity we are
limited to 5,000 pounds on our gas coach
so that will allow us to tow a large car
or a small SUV like a Ford Escape with a
diesel pusher though you get 10,000 the
15,000 pound tow capacity and that will
allow you to tow a large SUV or our
large pickup truck and you can put a
golf cart in the back or you can tow a
trailer and put side-by-side ATVs in
there you're really not limited the way
you can tell you could almost tell
whatever you want that the tow capacity
is really incredible you also get more
cargo capacity so with a class a gas
if it's just Sabrina and I we can load
up our cargo base and not really worry
too much about our overall weight and
not going over capacity for the chassis
if it was Sabrina and I and maybe two
teenagers that are going to take up some
of our weight and our cargo capacity
then becomes something that we have to
think about about how much we can carry
and put in our base with a diesel pusher
your cargo capacity is so much greater
that shouldn't really be an issue you
should be able to have a family of four
and still load up all your cargo base
with everything that you want
you should still take a look at the
specs and just be sure of that and have
your motorhome weighed because there are
a lot of people out there driving around
with too much weight they are overweight
and that's that can become dangerous but
with a diesel pusher you do have that
increased cargo capacity and it's nice
not to have to worry about what you
bring on a trip with you the other nice
thing about the diesel pushers is with
the engine in the back of the RV it
stays very quiet up in the cab area you
don't hear it revving and making noise
or anything like that so when you are
climbing these hills and the engine revs
it's really not going to affect you too
much your your all your over 30 feet
away from that thing so it does stay
quieter with the extra horsepower and
torque your don't climb the hills a
little easier a little faster smoother
one of the other advantages to the
diesel chassis is that most of the time
you're on an air suspension that's just
it it outperforms the gas chassis so
it's going to absorb bumps and shaking
and all that a lot better so you're
going to have a smoother quieter ride in
a diesel pusher so if they're like the
major advantages to a diesel pusher and
I honestly believe when you stack them
side-by-side that these will pusher is
the superior of the two choices but what
you got to do is you just got to take a
look at how you're going to be traveling
what are you doing be carrying what do
you want to tow where will you be going
and just decide what makes more sense
for you for us it's the class-a gas it
just makes more sense for what for what
we need would we buy a diesel pusher
sure if there
a floor plan out there and we really
liked it and we could get a good price
we would go with a diesel pusher we have
nothing against these will push shirts
so I think that's all of our points I
hope you enjoyed the video if you liked
it you can give it a thumbs up if you
disliked it you can give it a thumbs
down if you'd like to share it with all
your friends if you disliked it share it
with everybody you hate and subscribe to
the channel and we will see you next
time bye everybody take care and safe
travels